what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose I'm back
today with another video in my medicine
MMI interview series where I cover the
most common and most difficult questions
that can come up in an MMI interview and
I give you my opinion on how I think you
can best answer them and some red flags
and things that you should avoid you
don't know who I am my name is Nasir and
I'm a second year medical student at
King's College London if you guys want
to see more medical school related
content from me do feel free to
subscribe to this channel like this
video and also follow me on Instagram
alright so for today's video I'm gonna
be covering two different types of MMI
questions
the first type is the classic what five
things when you bring two X situation
and the second type of question is a
classic data interpretation and data
analysis question today's video is
sponsored by Kaplan which amongst other
things is a great resource to use for
interview preparation the great thing
about Kaplan is that their questions are
written by medical students on doctors
who have sat in on medical school
interviews so they know the types of
questions that are most likely to come
up all right so let's jump straight to
the questions I'm gonna be reading out
the questions to you guys and then
giving you my opinion on how I think you
can best answer it and I'll sprinkle in
some guidance and tips provided by
Kathleen in there as well so the first
question that I'm gonna tackle is the
what five things when you bring in X
situation type question so this question
can present itself in many different
ways and generally the theme is that you
are told that you're going on a camping
trip or you're going abroad or you're
gonna be alone or something along those
lines and you need to bring five items
what do you bring now I want to say when
answering this question don't worry
about choosing the perfect five items
that you need to take on this experience
there's no extremely right or extremely
wrong answer in this question the most
important thing is that you can justify
why you've chosen those items and then
they have some sorts of relevance to the
situation and of course the medicine and
the bigger picture the idea is that you
want to be practical and you want to be
able to defend every single choice that
you make so there's no point in saying
that you want to bring a helicopter to a
camping trip and there's no point just
to find that by saying because it's cool
for every item that you do choose you
should be able to say why it is that you
chose it what its gonna help you do what
are some of the uses that it has like I
said there's no right or wrong answer as
long as you choose items that you can
backup and you can
and why you've chosen them you're gonna
be okay since this is a medical school
interview you always want to keep that
context in mind you want to have the
main points of empathy emotion mental
health making someone feel comfortable
you want to be thinking about those
things when choosing your items and
explaining why it is that you've chosen
them all right so now let's take a look
at the first question provided by Kaplan
and think about how we can answer it
a friend calls you from the hospital
with the news that he's been diagnosed
with acute appendicitis he is asked you
to bring the hospital bag to him as soon
as possible
you only have space to bring five items
for him for an unspecified amount of
time what do you bring and why now
before I give you my opinion on how to
answer this question do leave a comment
down below with the five items that you
would bring to your friend to this
patient who's in hospital and that way
later we can compare our answers and
have a discussion so what are some of
the things that you want to think about
here I think a trap that you can easily
fall into is to hear or read acute
appendicitis and then start going off
and trying to show off all the medical
knowledge that you have around this
condition and how it can be treated do
not focus on the medical aspect of this
question too strongly the question is
asking you about the five items that you
would bring to this patient who is your
friend you should spend only a short
amount of time talking about the
appendicitis in a way that's relevant to
your answer so you might say since he's
been diagnosed with appendicitis he
might need surgery if that's the case
he'll need to spend a couple of days in
hospital and so the five items that I
would bring are bla bla bla bla bla so
now to choosing the actual items
there's no perfectly right or wrong
answer here and you want to put yourself
in the position of the patient if you
were someone sitting in hospital for two
or three days and you rang up your
friend and you were like hey I need you
to bring me X Y and Zed what would you
want what is it that you would need so
for example if you're in hospital for a
couple of days you're not gonna be able
to be as hygienic as you would like it
might be hard for you to get out of bed
especially after surgery you might be in
a lot of pain so you won't be able to
clean yourself as well you won't be able
to brush your teeth at night etc so
something that I would suggest is to
bring something that would increase the
comfort of the patient the comfort of
your friend so you might want to bring
them a toothbrush and some toothpaste
and then a clean change of clothes that
will help them feel more comfortable in
their hospital bed they'll be able to
stay more clean and more happy you might
also say that since the patient is going
to be spending a lot of time in bed
they're probably gonna be quite bored
they might be lonely at times and so you
might want to bring them something that
will give them entertainment so for
example a book is a good idea because it
won't strain their eyes if they're
looking at it for a long period of time
and you can also mention that the book
can be something simple to read nothing
to advanced because they might be
sedated they might be tired something
that's nice and easy to read you might
also suggest bringing headphones that
they can listen to their favorite music
and pastime in that way another thing
that you might actually say is that what
you want to bring is
yourself and you as company of course
your friend and your patient is gonna be
sitting in bed for a long time they
might get really bored they might get
really lonely and so having a close
friend that they can talk to and pass
time with is going to be something that
will really improve their mental health
and happiness while they're staying in
hospital so yeah the main point of this
question is that you want to bring a
variety of items that will address both
the physical comfort of the patient and
the mental health and the emotional
aspect of the patient you don't want to
choose many items that are too similar
you want to provide a variety of items
to show that you're able to think
outside the box all right so moving on
swiftly to the second question provided
by Kaplan and that's the data analysis
and interpretation question this is a
question that's almost always going to
come up in an MMI interview data
interpretation is something very
important to doctors and they're doing
it all the time so it's likely that
you'll be tested on this as well how
this question works is that you're
presented with either a graph or a table
and I'll put up a picture somewhere over
here so that you guys can follow what it
is that I'm talking about and then
you're asked to describe this picture
and interpret or analyze it usually
you're asked these two questions
separately so first you're asked to
describe and then you're asked to
analyze or interpret and if you are
asked like that make sure you separate
the two do leave a comment down below
letting me know how you would describe
it or how you would interpret the data
that you see in the graph so that we can
compare our answers later let's first
start off with describing so when you're
asked to describe a graph what you want
to do is basically state what you can
see you want to say what the title is
what it is that this graph is describing
you want to talk about the axes what are
they displaying what are their units etc
and just basically describing what is it
that you see in this graph the first
thing that you can see is that this is a
bar graph you always want to say what
kind of a graph is this is a bar graph a
histogram a pie chart scatterplot etc
etc and what is it showing you want to
look to the title so this is a bar graph
that shows the female mortality rates
for breast cancer in England and Wales
in 2010 2014 and 2018 on the x-axis we
can see four different age groups each
with a range of 19 years spanning from
21 years old to a hundred years old on
the y-axis we can see the number of
mortalities from 0 to 45,000 you can be
more succinct here in your description
but I like to provide some details that
the examiner knows that I know
everything that's in this ground
so now we've basically described this
graph we've said what kind of graph is
it what is the title what did the
actually show and what are their units a
basic description so now after that
you're gonna be asked to interpret or
analyze the data and when you're asked
to do this try not to just look at the
very surface level of what's going on
you always want to say what it is that
you see what are the trends what is this
graph showing but also a possible reason
for this why could it be that this is
happening and that's what's gonna score
you the top marks in this section you
want to make sure that you can give a
reason for the descriptions that you're
seeing so let me give you guys a couple
of examples so overall we can see that
from 2010 till 2018 with in all age
ranges there has been a decrease in
mortality rates with the biggest
decrease in mortality rates occurring in
the 61 to 80 age range between 2010 and
2014 so stating the overall trend but
also where you see the biggest change
and where you see the smallest change
can also be useful now I can say why I
think that this is happening so for
example mortality rates could have
decreased due to earlier detection rates
of breast cancer and or better care
after detection so as the years have
passed on technology has improved and we
have better tests to detect breast
cancer earlier so we're likely to see
less deaths from it another thing that I
can see in this graph is that the
highest mortality rates are seen in the
61 to 80 age group and I can say that
this is likely because the risk of
getting breast cancer increases greatly
in this group and that could be due to a
variety of reasons associated with old
age for example a weakened immune system
now on the other side of the coin I can
see that the lowest mortality rates are
seen between the ages of 21 and 40 and
in fact they look like they're almost
zero and this could be due to the fact
that cancer tends to present itself in
older age
once the cells have had time to
accumulate deleterious mutations we can
also see that the mortality rates drop
in the eldest age group so we might
expect that as people get older there's
just more and more mortality due to
breast cancer but we see that in the
eighty-one to a hundred age range group
there is less mortality than the 61 to
eighteen now this could mean that the
risk of getting breast cancer in that
age group is lower than the age group of
61 to 80 or that people in this age
group have diseases that are leading to
their death other than breast cancer so
you can see that we've described this
graph on
interpretation and analysis of its
content while proposing potential
reasons for why we are seeing those
trends why are we seeing those
interpretations and that's the most
important thing that's going to score
you the top marks in this section
alright and that is it for me for today
once again thank you to Kaplan for
sponsoring this video and providing the
questions that I covered if you guys are
looking for more questions to help you
prepare for my interviews with expert
guidance on how to answer them you can
check out Kaplan's website in the
description down below thank you guys
for watching this video I hope you found
it useful don't forget to leave a like
on this video and subscribe to my
channel if you want to see more video
content from me you can also follow me
on Instagram if that interests you and
I'll see you in the next one peace